README.md, before:

# SwiftyStoreKit
SwiftyStoreKit is a lightweight In App Purchases framework for iOS 8.0+ and OSX 9.0+, written in Swift.

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat
            )](http://mit-license.org)
[![Platform](http://img.shields.io/badge/platform-ios%20%7C%20osx-lightgrey.svg?style=flat
             )](https://developer.apple.com/resources/)
[![Language](http://img.shields.io/badge/language-swift-orange.svg?style=flat
             )](https://developer.apple.com/swift)
[![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit.svg?style=flat
           )](https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/issues)
[![Cocoapod](http://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/SwiftyStoreKit.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoadocs.org/docsets/SwiftyStoreKit/)
[![Carthage compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/Carthage-compatible-4BC51D.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)


### Preview

<img src="https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/raw/master/Screenshots/Preview.png" width="320">
<img src="https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/raw/master/Screenshots/Preview2.png" width="320">

### Retrieve products info
```swift
SwiftyStoreKit.retrieveProductsInfo(["com.musevisions.SwiftyStoreKit.Purchase1"]) { result in
    if let product = result.retrievedProducts.first {
        let priceString = NSNumberFormatter.localizedStringFromNumber(product.price ?? 0, numberStyle: .CurrencyStyle)
        print("Product: \(product.localizedDescription), price: \(priceString)")
    }
    else if let invalidProductId = result.invalidProductIDs.first {
        return alertWithTitle("Could not retrieve product info", message: "Invalid product identifier: \(invalidProductId)")
    }
    else {
	     print("Error: \(result.error)")
    }
}
```
### Purchase a product

```swift
SwiftyStoreKit.purchaseProduct("com.musevisions.SwiftyStoreKit.Purchase1") { result in
    switch result {
    case .Success(let productId):
        print("Purchase Success: \(productId)")
    case .Error(let error):
        print("Purchase Failed: \(error)")
    }
}
```

### Restore previous purchases

```swift
SwiftyStoreKit.restorePurchases() { results in
    if results.restoreFailedProducts.count > 0 {
        print("Restore Failed: \(results.restoreFailedProducts)")
    }
    else if results.restoredProductIds.count > 0 {
        print("Restore Success: \(results.restoredProductIds)")
    }
    else {
        print("Nothing to Restore")
    }
}
```

### Verify Receipt

```swift
SwiftyStoreKit.verifyReceipt() { result in
    if case .Error(let error) = result {
        if case .NoReceiptData = error {
            self.refreshReceipt()
        }
    }
}

func refreshReceipt() {
    SwiftyStoreKit.refreshReceipt { result in
        switch result {
        case .Success:
            print("Receipt refresh success")
        case .Error(let error):
            print("Receipt refresh failed: \(error)")
        }
    }
}
```

### Verify Purchase

```swift
SwiftyStoreKit.verifyReceipt() { result in
    switch result {
    case .Success(let receipt):
        // Verify the purchase of Consumable or NonConsumable
        let purchaseResult = SwiftyStoreKit.verifyPurchase(
            productId: "com.musevisions.SwiftyStoreKit.Purchase1",
            inReceipt: receipt
        )
        switch purchaseResult {
        case .Purchased(let expiresDate):
            print("Product is purchased.")
        case .NotPurchased:
            print("The user has never purchased this product")
        }
    case .Error(let error):
        print("Receipt verification failed: \(error)")
    }
}
```

Note that for consumable products, the receipt will only include the information for a couples of minutes after the purchase.

### Verify Subscription

```swift
SwiftyStoreKit.verifyReceipt() { result in
    switch result {
    case .Success(let receipt):
        // Verify the purchase of a Subscription
        let purchaseResult = SwiftyStoreKit.verifySubscription(
            productId: "com.musevisions.SwiftyStoreKit.Subscription",
            inReceipt: receipt,
            validUntil: NSDate()
            validDuration: 3600 * 24 * 30, // Non Renewing Subscription only
        )
        switch purchaseResult {
        case .Purchased(let expiresDate):
            print("Product is valid until \(expiresDate)")
        case .Expired(let expiresDate):
            print("Product is expired since \(expiresDate)")
        case .NotPurchased:
            print("The user has never purchased this product")
        }
        
    case .Error(let error):
        print("Receipt verification failed: \(error)")
    }
}
```


To test the expiration of a Non Renewing Subscription, you must indicate the `validDuration` time interval in seconds.


### Complete Transactions

This can be used to finish any transactions that were pending in the payment queue after the app has been terminated. Should be called when the app starts.

```swift
SwiftyStoreKit.completeTransactions() { completedTransactions in
    
    for completedTransaction in completedTransactions {
        
        if completedTransaction.transactionState == .Purchased || completedTransaction.transactionState == .Restored {
            
            print("purchased: \(completedTransaction.productId)")
        }
    }
}
```


**NOTE**:
The framework provides a simple block based API with robust error handling on top of the existing StoreKit framework. It does **NOT** persist in app purchases data locally. It is up to clients to do this with a storage solution of choice (i.e. NSUserDefaults, CoreData, Keychain).

## Installation

### CocoaPods

SwiftyStoreKit can be installed as a [CocoaPod](https://cocoapods.org/) and builds as a Swift framework. To install, include this in your Podfile.

```ruby
use_frameworks!

pod 'SwiftyStoreKit'
```
Once installed, just ```import SwiftyStoreKit``` in your classes and you're good to go.

### Carthage

To integrate SwiftyStoreKit into your Xcode project using [Carthage](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage), specify it in your Cartfile:

```ogdl
github "bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit"
```

**NOTE**: Please ensure that you have the [latest](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage/releases) Carthage installed.


## Sample Code
The project includes demo apps [for iOS](https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/blob/master/SwiftyStoreDemo/ViewController.swift) [and OSX](https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/blob/master/SwiftyStoreOSXDemo/ViewController.swift) showing how to use SwiftyStoreKit.
Note that the pre-registered in app purchases in the demo apps are for illustration purposes only and may not work as iTunes Connect may invalidate them.

#### Features
- Super easy to use block based API
- enum-based error handling
- Support for non-consumable in app purchases
- Receipt verification

#### Missing Features
- Ask To Buy

#### Untested Features
- Consumable in app purchases
- Free subscriptions for Newsstand

## Known issues

#### Requests lifecycle

While SwiftyStoreKit tries handle concurrent purchase or restore purchases requests, it is not guaranteed that this will always work flawlessly.
This is in part because using a closure-based API does not map perfectly well with the lifecycle of payments in `SKPaymentQueue`.

In real applications the following could happen:

1. User starts a purchase
2. User kills the app
3. OS continues processing this, resulting in a failed or successful purchase
4. App is restarted (payment queue is not updated yet)
5. User starts another purchase (the old transaction may interfere with the new purchase)

To prevent situations like this from happening, a `completeTransactions()` method has been added in version 0.2.8. This should be called when the app starts as it can take care of clearing the payment queue and notifying the app of the transactions that have finished.

#### Multiple accounts

The user can background the hosting application and change the Apple ID used with the App Store, then foreground the app. This has been observed to cause problems with SwiftyStoreKit - other IAP implementations may suffer from this as well.


## Changelog

#### Version 0.2.8

* Added `completeTransactions()` method to clear payment queue and return information about payments that have completed / failed.

#### Version 0.2.7

* Fixed **critical issue** that was causing the callbacks for `purchaseProduct()` and `restorePurchases()` to get mixed up when multiple requests were running concurrently. Related issues: [#3](https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/issues/3), [#22](https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/issues/22), [#26](https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/issues/26). _Note that while code analysis and various testing scenarios indicate that this is now resolved, this has not yet been confirmed by the reporters of the issues._

#### Version 0.2.6

* Retrieve multiple products info at once. Introduces the new `retrieveProductsInfo()` API call, which takes a set of product IDs and returns a struct with information about the corresponding SKProducts. [Related issue #21](https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/issues/21)

#### Version 0.2.5

* The `restorePurchases()` completion closure has been changed to return all restored purchases in one call. [Related issue #18](https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/issues/18)

#### Version 0.2.4

* Carthage compatible
* Fixed Swift 2.2 warnings

#### Previous versions

* Receipt verification
* OS X support

## Implementation Details
In order to make a purchase, two operations are needed:

- Obtain the ```SKProduct``` corresponding to the productId that identifies the app purchase, via ```SKProductRequest```.
 
- Submit the payment for that product via ```SKPaymentQueue```.

The framework takes care of caching SKProducts so that future requests for the same ```SKProduct``` don't need to perform a new ```SKProductRequest```.

### Requesting products information

SwiftyStoreKit wraps the delegate-based ```SKProductRequest``` API with a block based class named ```InAppProductQueryRequest```, which returns a `RetrieveResults` value with information about the obtained products:

```swift
public struct RetrieveResults {
    public let retrievedProducts: Set<SKProduct>
    public let invalidProductIDs: Set<String>
    public let error: NSError?
}
```
This value is then surfaced back to the caller of the `retrieveProductsInfo()` method the completion closure so that the client can update accordingly.

### Purchasing a product / Restoring purchases
`InAppProductPurchaseRequest` is a wrapper class for `SKPaymentQueue` that can be used to purchase a product or restore purchases.

The class conforms to the `SKPaymentTransactionObserver` protocol in order to receive transactions notifications from the payment queue. The following outcomes are defined for a purchase/restore action:

```swift
enum TransactionResult {
    case Purchased(productId: String)
    case Restored(productId: String)
    case Failed(error: NSError)
}
```
Depending on the operation, the completion closure for `InAppProductPurchaseRequest` is then mapped to either a `PurchaseResult` or a `RestoreResults` value and returned to the caller.

## Credits
Many thanks to [phimage](https://github.com/phimage) for adding OSX support and receipt verification.

## Apps using SwiftyStoreKit

It would be great to showcase apps using SwiftyStoreKit here. Pull requests welcome :)

* [MDacne](https://itunes.apple.com/app/id1044050208) - Acne analysis and treatment
* [Pixel Picker](https://itunes.apple.com/app/id930804327) - Image Color Picker
* [KType](https://itunes.apple.com/app/id1037000234) - Space shooter game


## License

Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Andrea Bizzotto bizz84@gmail.com

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Updated supported features section in README

README.md, after:

# SwiftyStoreKit
SwiftyStoreKit is a lightweight In App Purchases framework for iOS 8.0+ and OSX 9.0+, written in Swift.

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat
            )](http://mit-license.org)
[![Platform](http://img.shields.io/badge/platform-ios%20%7C%20osx-lightgrey.svg?style=flat
             )](https://developer.apple.com/resources/)
[![Language](http://img.shields.io/badge/language-swift-orange.svg?style=flat
             )](https://developer.apple.com/swift)
[![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit.svg?style=flat
           )](https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/issues)
[![Cocoapod](http://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/SwiftyStoreKit.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoadocs.org/docsets/SwiftyStoreKit/)
[![Carthage compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/Carthage-compatible-4BC51D.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)


### Preview

<img src="https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/raw/master/Screenshots/Preview.png" width="320">
<img src="https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/raw/master/Screenshots/Preview2.png" width="320">

### Retrieve products info
```swift
SwiftyStoreKit.retrieveProductsInfo(["com.musevisions.SwiftyStoreKit.Purchase1"]) { result in
    if let product = result.retrievedProducts.first {
        let priceString = NSNumberFormatter.localizedStringFromNumber(product.price ?? 0, numberStyle: .CurrencyStyle)
        print("Product: \(product.localizedDescription), price: \(priceString)")
    }
    else if let invalidProductId = result.invalidProductIDs.first {
        return alertWithTitle("Could not retrieve product info", message: "Invalid product identifier: \(invalidProductId)")
    }
    else {
	     print("Error: \(result.error)")
    }
}
```
### Purchase a product

```swift
SwiftyStoreKit.purchaseProduct("com.musevisions.SwiftyStoreKit.Purchase1") { result in
    switch result {
    case .Success(let productId):
        print("Purchase Success: \(productId)")
    case .Error(let error):
        print("Purchase Failed: \(error)")
    }
}
```

### Restore previous purchases

```swift
SwiftyStoreKit.restorePurchases() { results in
    if results.restoreFailedProducts.count > 0 {
        print("Restore Failed: \(results.restoreFailedProducts)")
    }
    else if results.restoredProductIds.count > 0 {
        print("Restore Success: \(results.restoredProductIds)")
    }
    else {
        print("Nothing to Restore")
    }
}
```

### Verify Receipt

```swift
SwiftyStoreKit.verifyReceipt() { result in
    if case .Error(let error) = result {
        if case .NoReceiptData = error {
            self.refreshReceipt()
        }
    }
}

func refreshReceipt() {
    SwiftyStoreKit.refreshReceipt { result in
        switch result {
        case .Success:
            print("Receipt refresh success")
        case .Error(let error):
            print("Receipt refresh failed: \(error)")
        }
    }
}
```

### Verify Purchase

```swift
SwiftyStoreKit.verifyReceipt() { result in
    switch result {
    case .Success(let receipt):
        // Verify the purchase of Consumable or NonConsumable
        let purchaseResult = SwiftyStoreKit.verifyPurchase(
            productId: "com.musevisions.SwiftyStoreKit.Purchase1",
            inReceipt: receipt
        )
        switch purchaseResult {
        case .Purchased(let expiresDate):
            print("Product is purchased.")
        case .NotPurchased:
            print("The user has never purchased this product")
        }
    case .Error(let error):
        print("Receipt verification failed: \(error)")
    }
}
```

Note that for consumable products, the receipt will only include the information for a couples of minutes after the purchase.

### Verify Subscription

```swift
SwiftyStoreKit.verifyReceipt() { result in
    switch result {
    case .Success(let receipt):
        // Verify the purchase of a Subscription
        let purchaseResult = SwiftyStoreKit.verifySubscription(
            productId: "com.musevisions.SwiftyStoreKit.Subscription",
            inReceipt: receipt,
            validUntil: NSDate()
            validDuration: 3600 * 24 * 30, // Non Renewing Subscription only
        )
        switch purchaseResult {
        case .Purchased(let expiresDate):
            print("Product is valid until \(expiresDate)")
        case .Expired(let expiresDate):
            print("Product is expired since \(expiresDate)")
        case .NotPurchased:
            print("The user has never purchased this product")
        }
        
    case .Error(let error):
        print("Receipt verification failed: \(error)")
    }
}
```


To test the expiration of a Non Renewing Subscription, you must indicate the `validDuration` time interval in seconds.


### Complete Transactions

This can be used to finish any transactions that were pending in the payment queue after the app has been terminated. Should be called when the app starts.

```swift
SwiftyStoreKit.completeTransactions() { completedTransactions in
    
    for completedTransaction in completedTransactions {
        
        if completedTransaction.transactionState == .Purchased || completedTransaction.transactionState == .Restored {
            
            print("purchased: \(completedTransaction.productId)")
        }
    }
}
```

**NOTE**:
The framework provides a simple block based API with robust error handling on top of the existing StoreKit framework. It does **NOT** persist in app purchases data locally. It is up to clients to do this with a storage solution of choice (i.e. NSUserDefaults, CoreData, Keychain).

## Installation

### CocoaPods

SwiftyStoreKit can be installed as a [CocoaPod](https://cocoapods.org/) and builds as a Swift framework. To install, include this in your Podfile.

```ruby
use_frameworks!

pod 'SwiftyStoreKit'
```
Once installed, just ```import SwiftyStoreKit``` in your classes and you're good to go.

### Carthage

To integrate SwiftyStoreKit into your Xcode project using [Carthage](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage), specify it in your Cartfile:

```ogdl
github "bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit"
```

**NOTE**: Please ensure that you have the [latest](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage/releases) Carthage installed.


## Sample Code
The project includes demo apps [for iOS](https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/blob/master/SwiftyStoreDemo/ViewController.swift) [and OSX](https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/blob/master/SwiftyStoreOSXDemo/ViewController.swift) showing how to use SwiftyStoreKit.
Note that the pre-registered in app purchases in the demo apps are for illustration purposes only and may not work as iTunes Connect may invalidate them.

#### Features
- Super easy to use block based API
- Support for consumable, non-consumable in-app purchases
- Support for free, auto renewable and non renewing subscriptions
- Receipt verification
- iOS and OS X compatible
- enum-based error handling

## Known issues

#### Requests lifecycle

While SwiftyStoreKit tries handle concurrent purchase or restore purchases requests, it is not guaranteed that this will always work flawlessly.
This is in part because using a closure-based API does not map perfectly well with the lifecycle of payments in `SKPaymentQueue`.

In real applications the following could happen:

1. User starts a purchase
2. User kills the app
3. OS continues processing this, resulting in a failed or successful purchase
4. App is restarted (payment queue is not updated yet)
5. User starts another purchase (the old transaction may interfere with the new purchase)

To prevent situations like this from happening, a `completeTransactions()` method has been added in version 0.2.8. This should be called when the app starts as it can take care of clearing the payment queue and notifying the app of the transactions that have finished.

#### Multiple accounts

The user can background the hosting application and change the Apple ID used with the App Store, then foreground the app. This has been observed to cause problems with SwiftyStoreKit - other IAP implementations may suffer from this as well.


## Changelog

#### Version 0.2.8

* Added `completeTransactions()` method to clear payment queue and return information about payments that have completed / failed.

#### Version 0.2.7

* Fixed **critical issue** that was causing the callbacks for `purchaseProduct()` and `restorePurchases()` to get mixed up when multiple requests were running concurrently. Related issues: [#3](https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/issues/3), [#22](https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/issues/22), [#26](https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/issues/26). _Note that while code analysis and various testing scenarios indicate that this is now resolved, this has not yet been confirmed by the reporters of the issues._

#### Version 0.2.6

* Retrieve multiple products info at once. Introduces the new `retrieveProductsInfo()` API call, which takes a set of product IDs and returns a struct with information about the corresponding SKProducts. [Related issue #21](https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/issues/21)

#### Version 0.2.5

* The `restorePurchases()` completion closure has been changed to return all restored purchases in one call. [Related issue #18](https://github.com/bizz84/SwiftyStoreKit/issues/18)

#### Version 0.2.4

* Carthage compatible
* Fixed Swift 2.2 warnings

#### Previous versions

* Receipt verification
* OS X support

## Implementation Details
In order to make a purchase, two operations are needed:

- Obtain the ```SKProduct``` corresponding to the productId that identifies the app purchase, via ```SKProductRequest```.
 
- Submit the payment for that product via ```SKPaymentQueue```.

The framework takes care of caching SKProducts so that future requests for the same ```SKProduct``` don't need to perform a new ```SKProductRequest```.

### Requesting products information

SwiftyStoreKit wraps the delegate-based ```SKProductRequest``` API with a block based class named ```InAppProductQueryRequest```, which returns a `RetrieveResults` value with information about the obtained products:

```swift
public struct RetrieveResults {
    public let retrievedProducts: Set<SKProduct>
    public let invalidProductIDs: Set<String>
    public let error: NSError?
}
```
This value is then surfaced back to the caller of the `retrieveProductsInfo()` method the completion closure so that the client can update accordingly.

### Purchasing a product / Restoring purchases
`InAppProductPurchaseRequest` is a wrapper class for `SKPaymentQueue` that can be used to purchase a product or restore purchases.

The class conforms to the `SKPaymentTransactionObserver` protocol in order to receive transactions notifications from the payment queue. The following outcomes are defined for a purchase/restore action:

```swift
enum TransactionResult {
    case Purchased(productId: String)
    case Restored(productId: String)
    case Failed(error: NSError)
}
```
Depending on the operation, the completion closure for `InAppProductPurchaseRequest` is then mapped to either a `PurchaseResult` or a `RestoreResults` value and returned to the caller.

## Credits
Many thanks to [phimage](https://github.com/phimage) for adding OSX support and receipt verification.

## Apps using SwiftyStoreKit

It would be great to showcase apps using SwiftyStoreKit here. Pull requests welcome :)

* [MDacne](https://itunes.apple.com/app/id1044050208) - Acne analysis and treatment
* [Pixel Picker](https://itunes.apple.com/app/id930804327) - Image Color Picker
* [KType](https://itunes.apple.com/app/id1037000234) - Space shooter game


## License

Copyright (c) 2015-2016 Andrea Bizzotto bizz84@gmail.com

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
